The Hexayurt is a simplified disaster relief shelter design. It is based on a geodesic geometry adapted to construction from standard 4x8 foot sheets of factory-made construction material. It resembles a panel yurt, hence the name. The hexayurt is integral to the Networked Domestic Disaster Response project, which focuses on public coordination of disaster relief efforts.This offloads the responsibility largely from the state or government, which unites several cheap and readily available technologies to perform tasks that have been historically left to highly trained teams with expensive apparatus.

The plan outlines a system of cellphone-accessible databases which would collocate raw materials, displaced people, host families and volunteer building teams to rapidly provide temporary accommodations for people made homeless by a natural disaster or man-made circumstances. The plan has been positively reviewed by the American Red Cross and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The Hexayurt building's design is in the Buckminster Fuller lineage of using contiguous triangles to maximize the load-bearing ability of simple structures. For constructions made from light material the panels can be joined by tape. For heavier builds made out of OSB or plywood, metal brackets or wooden blocks can be used. The instructions are available on [Appropedia](http://appropedia.org) (Appropedia is used as the wiki for the hexayurt project) and are released as public domain by the inventor Vinay Gupta.